
Generative AI is a branch of Artificial Intelligence that provides complex deep learning models that generate content that does not already exist but has a very high resemblence with real life data such as audio, video, images, text content. These artificial Intelligence systems are very much different from traditional AI systems which are usually used for solving problems like Classification, Regression, Clustering.

4 main categories of GenAI models:

1. GANs: Generative Adverserial Networks 
2. VAE: Variational AutoEncoders 
3. LLMs: Large Language Models 
4. Diffusion Models 


1. GANs: Generative Adverserial Networks:
These are a class of deep learning models developed by Ian Goodfellow in the year 2014. These models use the fascinating Game Theoretic Approach for generating fake realistic content that does not already exist. GAN deep learning models have 2 main components: Generator, Discriminator. Generator takes in random noise as input and creates its first image.(which is usually distorted garbage). So in short a generator's responsibility is to create and Discriminator's responsibility is to compare Real VS Fake. Discriminator at all times has complete access to both: Real-Life Image Datasets as well as Fake Images generated by the Generator. On the basis of the comparison the generator makes, it is supposed to distinguish between Real and Fake which initially Discriminator is easily able to do because Generator initially produces garbage. Both give eachother feedback. Generator gives Discriminator feedback about how well it was able to differentiate and Discriminator gives feedback about how realistic of an image generator was able to generate. This is a Zero-Sum game that runs for over a thousands of cycles until when both generator and discriminator become incredibly good at their tasks and try their level best to outcompete each other. Over thousands of cycles this lead to creation of hyper-realistic images that become indistinguishable from real-life images. 














